hello everyone and welcome back to
episode 8 of an introduction to dota 2
back by popular demand if you haven't
seen the last episode yet you can click
here to watch it now most heroes in the
game have an ultimate ability or alt for
short
the ultimate is activated by pressing
the R key by default it is often
designed to be the heroes most deadly
attack some ultimate abilities will
affect only a single target or multiple
targets within a localized area however
some Ultimates are global this means
they have an effect across the whole map
examples of such Ultimates are nature's
prophet silencer and Zeus being able to
predict when these abilities might be
used by your opponent is essential to
being able to evade them there is
normally little to no warning about the
ultimate being used as such you should
always watch the health of your allies
this provides a big clue as to when the
ultimate might be used when an ally is
below 20% health there is a fairly high
chance at a global alt will be used to
finish them off
you also need to keep an eye on the map
for the positions of both allies and
enemies if you see either team bunching
up it's quite likely they are trying to
start teamfights another scenario when
alts are used liberally if in an
unfortunate circumstance you find
yourself on low health you should head
for areas of well warded friendly
territory this ensures you know there
are no enemies lurking around now you
have a choice if you know there is a
friendly player nearby who can supply
you with help or you are carrying health
on you such as a healing cell or tango
you should aim to get that health as
soon as possible if on the other hand
you are caught with no means of
regenerating health you need to get back
to your base as fast as you can the side
shops can be used to purchase a
teleportation scroll in this situation
note however that you cannot purchase
one from a secret shop failing this you
should walk back to base this is your
last option and it's the most dangerous
it gives the enemy a lot of time to
prepare their Ultimates in such an event
you should aim to take a direct but
unpredictable route back to the base
zigzagging will help dodge point-based
Ultimates such as ancient apparitions
ice flies
the more creative the roots are the less
likely is that the enemy will guess
where you're going in some cases the
global ultimate will have some kind of
condition attached to it such as not
being able to work on invisible heroes
making yourself invisible whilst heading
back to the base is often a good
strategy the aim of the game is to
destroy enemy towers and ultimately
their ancient you therefore need to make
certain that your team is capable of
doing so
heroes with good pushing abilities such
as nature's prophet dark seer or
venomancer will allow your team to
speedily push down the lane towards the
enemy base whilst the rest of the team
is distracted by small localized fights
the pushing hero can move into position
and push the lane behind the enemy's
backs this involves killing the creeps
and towers that stand between you and
the ancients it is often useful for the
pushing hero to be able to teleport back
to the base or another Lane when they
are pushed to the point that it is too
dangerous to go any further this can be
achieved either through the heroes
abilities or by the purchase of a town
portal scroll or boots of travel heroes
with additional controllable units are
particularly useful for pushing they
will absorb damage from the towers and
creeps as well as attack for themselves
what's more being away from the rest of
the team will give you a lot of golden
XP that awareness is essential for any
hero who goes beyond the frontlines to
push a good support should always ward
areas of jungle where your team is
pushing this provides vision so that you
can escape when you see the enemy
wandering back to counter push if you
can't see an enemy well you think they
may be headed your way it's best to back
out allowing them to get close and
teleporting to the opposite lane at the
last second is a good tactic as it
wastes their time but it is not advised
unless you are sure it can be achieved
that's it for this episode thanks for
watching please subscribe and stay tuned
for more